## Create EFS  
* Goto AWS Management Console:
  Storage > EFS > Create file system > Customize
* File system settings
  * Insert required details:
    1.  Lifecycle Management 
    2.  Performance mode
        * General Purpose
    3.  Throughput mode
        * Bursting
  * Network access  
    You'll be able to see different availability zones as per your VPC. **Note that if you change VPC then policies will be changed as well.**
    1.  VPC
    2.  Mount targets
  * File system policy - Optional  
    Here you'll see three different policies. Choose as per your convinience or need.
 *  Create
 
## Launch an instance
*  Create an EC2 instance.
*  At `Step 3: Configure Instance Details` click on **Add file system**. Here you can see the EFS name you just created.
*  Rest of the configuration part will remail same for [launching an ec2 instance](https://github.com/A9HORA/AWS_Guide/blob/master/EC2/2.%20Deploy%20your%20first%20EC2%20instance.md).

## Change firewall rule
* As the EFS uses NFS(Network File System) protocol, we have to open a port-2049 which can be done by adding a new inbound rule for allowing NFS protocol and limiting source to the security group we chose while creaing instances.  

## Mount the EFS
* Goto Storage > EFS > Click on the name of created EFS > Attach
* You can mount an EFS in two different manners:  
  1. Mount via DNS  
      You'll be able to see and copy the command such as:  
        `sudo mount -t efs -o tls fs-95cda344:/ efs`  
        tls means encryption in transit which can be changed when you create the EFS.  
        efs is the mount point or directory where you want to mount your EFS.  
  2. Mount via IP  
* SSH the instance
* Switch to sudo and use the command
* Done
