## Note
* There are two terms you will come across while studing the amazon databases which differes in terms of the type of queries you will run:  
    1.  OLTP (Online Transaction Processing)
        * Pulls low amount of data. For ex, fetching details of a specific order.  
    2.  OLAP (Online Analytical Processing)
        * Pulls huge amount of data. For ex, fetching details of sales and profit of a specific product from all the regions.  
## AWS Databases  
* In terms of **relational database services aka RDS,** AWS has six RDS as follows:
  1.  MSSQL Server  
  2.  Oracle
  3.  MYSQL Server
  4.  PostgreSQL
  5.  Amazon Aurora
  6.  MariaDB
* RDS follows OLTP.
* RDS has two key features as follows:
  1.  Multi-AZ `For disaster recovery`  
      * For certain reasons if our primary DB is unavailable then AWS will automatically update the DNS to secondary or available one. In other words, failover in automated manner.  
      * Any operation performed on one DB instance will be replicated automatically to other AZs.  
      * 
  2.  Read Replica `For performance`  
      * A primary instance contains connection string to secondary DB instance.  
      * So any operation performed on primary DB instance will be replicated perfectly to secondary one.  
      * But there is no automatic failover so have to reconfigure the connection berween DB and EC2 if there is some issue.  
      * However, it is useful for distributing the query load as you can redirect certain instances to one DB instance & certain to the others.  
* For having a DB connection, **EC2 instance requires DB connection string (DNS string)**.  


* AWS also support non-relational databases, which consists of the followings and resonses as basically in JSON format:  
  1.  Collection = Table  
  2.  Document = Row  
  3.  Key value pairs = Fields  
* NoSQL follows OLAP.
* AWS supports DynamoDB as NoSQl DB.

* Data-warehousing  
  * Data-warehousing uses different architecture from both database perspective and infrastructure layer.  
  * It is used for business intelligence with tools such as Cognos, Jaspersoft, SQL Server Reporting Services, Oracle Hyperion, SAP NetWeaver.  
  * Also used to pull in very large & complex data sets, usually used by managemnet to do queries on large amount of data.  
  * **Amazon Redshift** is a data warehousing solution by amazon capable of handling all the analytical job of data warehousing.  
  
  
  * ElasticCache
    * A web service that makes it easy to deploy, operate and scale an in-memory cache in the cloud. In other words, it caches the most common and frequent web queries for boosting the performance of existing databases.  
    * It improves the performance of web applications by allowing you to retrieve infromation from fast, managed, in-memory caches, instead of entirely relying on slower disk-based DBs.  
    * It supports two open-source in-memory caching engines:  
      1.  Memcached  
      2.  Redis  
  
* Backup is crucial part when it comes to DB backup for safety and aws has two types of it:  
  1. Automated Backup
       * AWS chooses most recent backup and most recent transaction logs relevent to that day when we proceed for recovery.  
       * The automated backup is enabled by default and stored in s3. You get the equal size backup space same as you DB.  
  2. Database snapshot
       * For the DB with Multi-AZ enabled, Reboot with failover forces to change the AZ for the DB.  
       * DB snapshot is manual approach.  
* Process for creating a read replica is same as creating a new DB instance. The change you will notice that the primary instance role will be presented as **master** while the replicated one will be as **replica.**  
* You can make promote the replicated DB instance to master using the **Actions** option.  
* After restoration the new version will be considered as new instance with new DNS name.  


* DynamoDB is NoSQL database of AWS.  
    * It's fast, flexible with single digit latency at any scale.  
    * Supports document & key-value data model.  
    * A greater fit for mobile, web, gaming, IoT, etc.  
    * Stored on SSD.
    * Eventually consistent read. `Repeating a read after a short time period.`  
    * Strongly consistent read. `Repeating a read within 1 sec or shorter aka one-sec rule.`
