# Storage Gateway (StorageGW  //Made this shortform for my ease.)

1.  SoftwareGW is a service useful to connect an on-premise IT environment to AWS's storage infrastructure.
2.  It provides secure & seamless integration of the on-premise software appliance to the cloud-based storage.
3.  In other words, it replicates your data center data to AWS cloud storage.
4.  The StorageGW comes in form of a VM image that you install on a host in your data center.
5.  It supports VMware ESXi or Microsoft Hyper-V.
6.  The StorageGW has three variants as follows:
    1.  File Gateway (NFS & SMB)
    2.  Volumn Gateway (iSCSI)  `A way of storing VDD or HDD in S3`
        * Stored Volumnes   `A complete copy or entire dataset of your data, locally present in the data-center`
        * Cached Volumnes   `Backs up the most frequently used data`
    3.  Type Gateway (VTL) `VTL stands for Virtual Tape Library`

# File Gateway
  
  * A way to store files in S3, accessed through a NFS mount point.
  * Ownership, permissions and timestamps are durably stored in S3 in the user metadata of the object associated with the file.
  * Once objects are transferred to S3, they can be managed as native S3 objects and all the bucket policies apply directly to objects stored in your bucket.

# Volumn Gateway

  * Uses iSCSI protocol.
  * Performs point-in-time snapshot based asynchronous backup and stores in the cloud as EBS snapshots.
  * Snapshots are **incremental backups** that capture only changed blocks.

# Type Gateway

  * A durable and cost-effective solution for archiving your data into AWS cloud.
  * The VTL interface it provides, lets you leverage your existing tape-based backup application infrastructure to store the data on virtual-tape cartridges that you create on your tape gateway.
