## For more information goto https://docs.aws.amazon.com/

* S3 **(Simple Storage Service)** is **Object-based storage**. (You can say object is just your file you are uploading)  
* Used to **store & retrive any amount of data** from anywhere on the web.  
* Stored data is spread across multiple devices and facilities.  
* Unlimited storage capacity where your data gets stored in **Buckets (Basically, your folder with globally unique name where all your uploaded files will be stored)**.
* For ex, `https://unique_backet_name.s3.amazonaws.com/` or `https://unique_backet_name.eu-east-1.amazonaws.com/`
* You will receive **200 OK response** if the file uploaded successfully.
* **Not suitable for OS installation.**
* Files can be 0 Bytes to 5 TB.  
* There are certain important terms when it comes to S3, such as
  1. Key -> Name of the object.  
  2. Value -> The data and is made up of a sequence of bytes.  
  3. Version ID -> Most important for versioning.  
  4. Metadata -> Data about data (Every file has it's properties)  
  5. Subresources
* Consistency  
  1. You can immediately read the file after uploading it successfully called PUTS.
  2. Eventual overwrite consistency. For ex, when there is a file of v1 version present and you upload v2 version of the file. It will overwrite the v1 and v2 will be available. This called PUTS and DELETES.  
* Guarentees
  1. 99.99% availability.  
  2. 99.999999999% durability.  
* Features
  1. Tiered Storage 
  2. Life-cycle Management
  3. Versioning
  4. Encryption
  5. MFA Delete
  6. Data security using **ACL (Access Control Lists) and Bucket Policies**
* There are two types of encryption you would come across,  
      `1.Encryption in Transit` where data will remain encrypted during transfer, achieved by SSL/TLS.  
      `2.Encryption at rest(Server Side)` where data will be encrypted when it gets stored. For ex, you encrypt your HDD.
         (In case of S3, it could take place either at client side or server side)  
* Encryption at rest(Server Side)  
  1. There are three ways in this case,  
      * S3 Managed
