* Route53 is amazon's DNS service. `As DNS service runs on port 53 amazon named it Route53.`  
* DNS converts human readable names into IPv4/6. In other words, it's a way of looking up a domain name and get it's IP address.  
* All the top level domains such as .com, .gov, .edu are controlled by the IANA in a root zone database which is essentially a database of all available top level domains.  
* Every DNS address begins with the `start of authority aka SOA record`, which stores the information about:  
  1.  The name of the server that supplied the data for the zone.  
  2.  The administartor of the zone.
  3.  The current version of the data file.  
  4.  The default number of seconds for the TTL-file on resouce records. 
* NS stands for Name server records used by top level domain servers to direct traffic to the content DNS server which contains the authoratative  DNS records.
* DNS consists of several records as follows:  
  1.  A record `Address`  
      * Used by computers to translate the domain name to IP.  
  2.  TTL stands for Time to live  
      * Timing in seconds or length that a DNS record is cached.  
      * The lower the TTL, the faster changes to DNS records takes to propogate throughout the internet.  
      * The default time is 48hours for most of the providers.
  3.  CNAME `Canonical Name`
      * Used to resolve one domain name to another. In other words to different domain names for the same IP address.
      * For ex, You have a mobile website called http://m.abc.com & http://mobile.abc.com with same IP address. 
      * CNAME can't be used for naked domain name such as http://abc.com
  4.  Alias records
      * Used to map resource record sets in your hosted zone to ELB, CloudFront distribution or S3 that are configured as webssite.

* Route 53 has certain routing policies as follows:
  1.  Simple Routing
      * When you choose this policy, you can only have one record with multiple IPs.  
      * If you specify multiple values in a record, Route 53 returns all the values to the user in a random order.
  2.  Weighted Routing
      * Splits or distribute traffic based on provided weight.
      * Such as, 60% traffic to us-west-1 & 40% to us-east-1.  
  3.  Latenct-based Routing
  4.  Failover Routing
  5.  Geolocation Routing
  6.  Geoproximity Routing `For traffic flow only`
  7.  Multivalue Answer Routing
